https://www.dezyre.com/article/how-data-partitioning-in-spark-helps-achieve-more-parallelism/297

https://www.edureka.co/blog/demystifying-partitioning-in-spark [Need to read]

RDDs are stored in partitions and operated in parallel.
Q. RDD logical entity?? --vs-- partitions a physical entity??


Usually RDD are so big that cannot fit onto a single node, and has to be partitioned across multiple nodes.
Spark partitions the RDD and distribute these partitions over nodes in cluster.

A partition in Spark is the atomic chunk of data. (I think it means there is not smaller unit of data in spark)


A single partition in Spark do not span more than one machine.

One way to increase the parallelism in spark is to increase the number of Executors (though not always benificial)
Spark tries to minimize network transfers and communication , as it is an expensive resources.

Minimize network traffic for sending data between executors.
By default, Apache Spark reads data into an RDD from the nodes that are close to it.
Q. How does it read data for a partition on a nodes? Does spark read data for each partition level?



Partitioning in Spark might not be helpful for all applications, for instance, if a RDD is scanned only once, then portioning data within 
the RDD might not be helpful but if a dataset is reused multiple times in various key oriented operations like joins, 
then partitioning data will be helpful.
Q. Why if for a single scan, partitioning is not helpful?


Partitioning is an important concept in apache spark as it determines how the entire hardware resources are accessed when executing any job
In apache spark, by default a partition is created for every HDFS partition of size 64MB. 
[And some methods just create some default number of partitions atleast, like parallelize(), textFile()]

For custom partitioning developers have to check the number of slots in the hardware and how many tasks an executor can 
handle to optimize performance and achieve parallelism.


Apache Spark can run a single concurrent task for every partition of an RDD, up to the total number of cores in the cluster. 
If a cluster has 30 cores then programmers want their RDDs to have 30 cores at the very least or maybe 2 or 3 times of that.
**Q. Shouldn't we should keep the partitions less than the number of available cores, so that all the computation on partitions can
be done on same time, rather than 2, 3 times of cores??

Sol-> The best way to decide on the number of partitions in an RDD is to make the number of partitions equal to the number of cores 
in the cluster so that all the partitions will process in parallel and the resources will be utilized in an optimal way.
(OR a close multiple of it. Eg if 4 cores and 5 partitions with 10 min each partition work, then the 5th partition will be a lone
one and 3 cores will be idle)



Too many partitions is also bad. Task Scheduler may take more time.
Too less partitions -> Under utilization and data Skewness (as data will not be well distributed in cluster)


General Guidelines:-
The lower bound for spark partitions is determined by 2 X number of cores in the cluster available to application.
Determining the upper bound for partitions in Spark, the task should take 100+ ms time to execute. If it takes less time, then the partitioned data might be too small or the application might be spending extra time in scheduling tasks.


Types of Partitioning:-
HASH partitioning
Range Partitioning

Hash Partitioning in Spark
Hash Partitioning attempts to spread the data evenly across various partitions based on the key. Object.hashCode method is used to determine the partition in Spark as partition = key.hashCode () % numPartitions.
Q*** But isn't it cause more data movement between executors?



Range Partitioning in Spark
Some Spark RDDs have keys that follow a particular ordering, for such RDDs, range partitioning is an efficient partitioning technique. 
In range partitioning method, tuples having keys within the same range will appear on the same machine. 
Keys in a range partitioner are partitioned based on the set of sorted range of keys and ordering of keys.

Spark’s range partitioning and hash partitioning techniques are ideal for various spark use cases but spark does allow users to fine 
tune how their RDD is partitioned, by using custom partitioner objects. 
Custom Spark partitioning is available only for pair RDDs i.e. RDDs with key value pairs as the elements can be grouped based on a 
function of each key. 
Spark does not provide explicit control of which key will go to which worker node but it ensures that a set of keys will appear 
together on some node. For instance, you might range partition the RDD based on the sorted range of keys so that elements having 
keys within the same range will appear on the same node or you might want to hash partition the RDD into 100 partitions so 
that keys that have same hash value for modulo 100 will appear on the same node.



RDDs can be created with specific partitioning in two ways –
Providing explicit partitioner by calling partitionBy method on an RDD,

Applying transformations that return RDDs with specific partitioners. Some operation on RDDs that hold to and propagate a partitioner are-
Join
LeftOuterJoin
RightOuterJoin
groupByKey
reduceByKey
foldByKey
sort
partitionBy
foldByKey








